README.md, before:

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

## About The Project

The complex I live in has a keypad at the gate where visitors dial my unit number, which initiates a call to my
cellphone. If I want to let them in, I dial 9 and the gate opens. The system works well enough, but can be a pain when
my wife's at home and needs to open the gate for a delivery, so this repository contains a project that

1. Provisions single-use keycodes for the gate
2. Integrates with Telegram for management of those keys and user accounts
3. Exposes a webhook for telephone calls to a Twilio-managed telephone number
4. Uses DTMF tones to allow visitors to key in their keycodes at the gate
5. Automatically responds with a 9 if the key is valid
6. Notifies all users via telegram whenever the gate is opened

Thereby taking myself out of the gate-opening loop!

### Built With

![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/github%20actions-%232671E5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=white)
![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring_Boot-%236DB33F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=springboot&logoColor=white)
![SQLite](https://img.shields.io/badge/sqlite-%2307405e.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlite&logoColor=white)
![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-2CA5E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white)
![Twilio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twilio-F22F46?style=for-the-badge&logo=Twilio&logoColor=white)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

#### SSL cert

The system's Twilio integration operates via a webhook that receives requests over HTTPS, so we need a cert to secure
those connections.
If you purchased your domain through [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/registrar/), you get certificates
for free (and can
use [my Dynamic DNS script to automatically update your CloudFlare domain record when your IP address changes](https://github.com/BrydonLeonard/CloudFlareDDNS)).

Your cert will come with a `.crt` and `.key` files, but GateKey uses PKCS12 cert bundles, so create one with

```bash
openssl pkcs12 -export -out your_cert_bundle_name -inkey your_key_file.key -in your_cert_file.crt
```

You'll use that cert later when starting up the server.

#### Telegram bot token

You'll need a telegram bot token for the key registration portion of the service to work. You receive one of these when
registering a bot with the BotFather. See the
[BotFather to HelloWorld tutorial](https://core.telegram.org/bots/tutorial) for more info.

#### Twilio account and number

This isn't required to start up the server, but the service is a bit useless without it. Purchase a telephone number
from twilio and set up the voice service to point to `${your_domain}/voice`.

### Installation

#### From source

##### Packaging and deployment

Run `gradlew build` to generate the application tarball in `build/distributions`. Copy it to wherever you want to run it
from
and extract the archive.

##### Starting up

Set these environment variables and run `bin/GateKey`:

- `GATE_KEY_ALLOWED_CALLERS` - A comma-separated list of telephone numbers from which the system will accept calls. The
  number
  used by the gate should be one of them.
- `GATE_KEY_DB_PATH` the path at which the SQLite DB will be saved. This is optional, but not setting it will mean that
  the DB is created _inside_ the docker container and disappears with every deployment.
- `GATE_KEY_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` - The token that's used to assume the role of the Telegram bot.
- `GATE_KEY_CERT_PATH` - The path of the PKCS12 cert bundle for the server.
- `GATE_KEY_CERT_PASSWORD` - The password for the PKCS12 cert bundle.
- `GATE_KEY_TWILIO_TOKEN` - The Twilio account token. Make sure it's for the correct region; Twilio's UI can be vague
  about which region a token is for.

#### From the docker image

GateKey is published as an image to DockerHub. You can follow these steps to run it via Docker.

1. [Install and start the docker daemon](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
2. Pull down the GateKey image:

```bash
$ docker image pull brydonleonard/gate_key:mainline
```

3. Create the volume that will hold your certificate and DB between image restarts. You can put it wherever you like on
   the host machine, but remember the location for later when starting the container:

```bash
$ docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/location/on/the/host/machine --opt o=bind GateKeyVolume
```

4. Copy your cert into the volume's directory on the host machine. It'll be used by the docker image at startup
5. Use the image to run a container. The DB path and cert path are configured by default in the docker image, but the
   other environment variables all need to be configured:

```bash
$ sudo docker run \
  --env GATE_KEY_ALLOWED_CALLERS=${allowedCallers} \
  --env GATE_KEY_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=${botToken} \
  --env GATE_KEY_CERT_PASSWORD=${password} \
  --env GATE_KEY_TWILIO_TOKEN=${twilioToken} \
  --volume GateKeyVolume:/persistent \
  --name=GateKey \
  --detach \
  --publish 443:443
  brydonleonard/gate_key:mainline
```

6. If you want GateKey to start automatically and restart when it crashes, add the restart config to your `run` command:

```bash
--restart unless-stopped
```

## Usage

TODO: Some usage examples here

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->

## Acknowledgments

* [Best-README-Template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/README.md)

Commit message:

Add device registration
Devices can now register and be allocated MQTT topics for their households. Notably, all devices will currently use admin credentials and MQTT traffic is _not_ encrypted. Those are pretty important follow-ups to this change.

At a high level, device registration looks like:
1. The device polls GateKey and its ID is stashed
2. A GateKey user submits the device ID for registration against their household
3. The device is registered and a set of credentials and an MQTT topic are provisioned
4. The device polls again and receives its creds and topic
5. The device subscribes and starts receiving notifications every time the gate opens.

The specifics of the device registration state machine are documented in the MqttDeviceRegisterer class.

This commit also implements a blocking queue and asynchronous notifier to break a cyclic dependency that was introduced because the device registered needs to be able to send Telegram messages. Anything wanting to send a notification now pushes it to the queue and it's asynchronously sent across all notifiers.

README.md, after:

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

## About The Project

The complex I live in has a keypad at the gate where visitors dial my unit number, which initiates a call to my
cellphone. If I want to let them in, I dial 9 and the gate opens. The system works well enough, but can be a pain when
my wife's at home and needs to open the gate for a delivery, so this repository contains a project that

1. Provisions single-use keycodes for the gate
2. Integrates with Telegram for management of those keys and user accounts
3. Exposes a webhook for telephone calls to a Twilio-managed telephone number
4. Uses DTMF tones to allow visitors to key in their keycodes at the gate
5. Automatically responds with a 9 if the key is valid
6. Notifies all users via telegram whenever the gate is opened

Thereby taking myself out of the gate-opening loop!

### Built With

![GitHub Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/github%20actions-%232671E5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=white)
![Spring Boot](https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring_Boot-%236DB33F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=springboot&logoColor=white)
![SQLite](https://img.shields.io/badge/sqlite-%2307405e.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=sqlite&logoColor=white)
![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram-2CA5E0?style=for-the-badge&logo=telegram&logoColor=white)
![Twilio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twilio-F22F46?style=for-the-badge&logo=Twilio&logoColor=white)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

#### SSL cert

The system's Twilio integration operates via a webhook that receives requests over HTTPS, so we need a cert to secure
those connections.
If you purchased your domain through [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/registrar/), you get certificates
for free (and can
use [my Dynamic DNS script to automatically update your CloudFlare domain record when your IP address changes](https://github.com/BrydonLeonard/CloudFlareDDNS)).

Your cert will come with a `.crt` and `.key` files, but GateKey uses PKCS12 cert bundles, so create one with

```bash
openssl pkcs12 -export -out your_cert_bundle_name -inkey your_key_file.key -in your_cert_file.crt
```

You'll use that cert later when starting up the server.

#### Telegram bot token

You'll need a telegram bot token for the key registration portion of the service to work. You receive one of these when
registering a bot with the BotFather. See the
[BotFather to HelloWorld tutorial](https://core.telegram.org/bots/tutorial) for more info.

#### Twilio account and number

This isn't required to start up the server, but the service is a bit useless without it. Purchase a telephone number
from twilio and set up the voice service to point to `${your_domain}/voice`.

### Installation

#### From source

##### Packaging and deployment

Run `gradlew build` to generate the application tarball in `build/distributions`. Copy it to wherever you want to run it
from
and extract the archive.

##### Starting up

Set these environment variables and run `bin/GateKey`:

- `GATE_KEY_ALLOWED_CALLERS` - A comma-separated list of telephone numbers from which the system will accept calls. The
  number
  used by the gate should be one of them.
- `GATE_KEY_DB_PATH` the path at which the SQLite DB will be saved. This is optional, but not setting it will mean that
  the DB is created _inside_ the docker container and disappears with every deployment.
- `GATE_KEY_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` - The token that's used to assume the role of the Telegram bot.
- `GATE_KEY_CERT_PATH` - The path of the PKCS12 cert bundle for the server.
- `GATE_KEY_CERT_PASSWORD` - The password for the PKCS12 cert bundle.
- `GATE_KEY_TWILIO_TOKEN` - The Twilio account token. Make sure it's for the correct region; Twilio's UI can be vague
  about which region a token is for.

#### From the docker image

GateKey is published as an image to DockerHub. You can follow these steps to run it via Docker.

1. [Install and start the docker daemon](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
2. Pull down the GateKey image:

```bash
$ docker image pull brydonleonard/gate_key:mainline
```

3. Create the volume that will hold your certificate and DB between image restarts. You can put it wherever you like on
   the host machine, but remember the location for later when starting the container:

```bash
$ docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/location/on/the/host/machine --opt o=bind GateKeyVolume
```

4. Copy your cert into the volume's directory on the host machine. It'll be used by the docker image at startup
5. Use the image to run a container. The DB path and cert path are configured by default in the docker image, but the
   other environment variables all need to be configured:

```bash
$ sudo docker run \
  --env GATE_KEY_ALLOWED_CALLERS=${allowedCallers} \
  --env GATE_KEY_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=${botToken} \
  --env GATE_KEY_CERT_PASSWORD=${password} \
  --env GATE_KEY_TWILIO_TOKEN=${twilioToken} \
  --volume GateKeyVolume:/persistent \
  --name=GateKey \
  --detach \
  --publish 443:443
  brydonleonard/gate_key:mainline
```

> If you want to test your MQTT notifications locally, check out the config keys prefixed with `GATE_KEY_MQTT`
> in `com/brydonleonard/gatekey/Config`.

6. If you want GateKey to start automatically and restart when it crashes, add the restart config to your `run` command:

```bash
--restart unless-stopped
```

## GateKey device creation

If you'd like to add services that are notified via MQTT when the gate opens, take a look at the MqttDeviceRegisterer.
New devices go through a passwordless handshake by requiring users to explicitly add them to their households. The
process
looks something like:

1. Device polls the GateKey server. It's registered as a polling device, but gets no MQTT subscription creds yet.
2. A user sends a request to the `/addDevice` action in the telegram app and passes in the ID of the new device.
3. The device is authorized with the user's house and credentials are issued.
4. The device polls again and receives a set of credentials and an MQTT topic ID.
5. The device uses those credentials to subscribe to the topic.

At that point, you can do whatever you want with the gate open notifications. I made a little box with an ESP32 and a
speaker than plays cute noises whenever someone arrives.

## Usage

TODO: Some usage examples here

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->

## Acknowledgments

* [Best-README-Template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/blob/master/README.md)
